# 2023 Universal microbial network decomposes mammals despite varied climate, location, and seasonal influence - Burcham et al.
Microbial breakdown of organic material is one of the most important processes on earth, yet enormous knowledge gaps exist about its controls. We demonstrate that a universal, interkingdom microbial network assembles in response to nutrient-rich, terrestrial mammalian decomposition, despite selection effects of location, climate and season. We created the first metagenome-assembled genome library from mammalian decomposition-associated soils and combined it with metabolomics to identify a microbial decomposer network that interacts by cross-feeding to efficiently metabolize labile decomposition products. The key fungal and bacterial decomposers appear unique to the breakdown of terrestrial cadavers, and are rare in relative abundance across non-decomposition environments. Blow flies are suggested as an important decomposer vector and the observed lockstep of microbial interactions underlies a robust microbial forensic tool for predicting the time since death. 

Raw sequencing data and sample metadata are available on the QIITA open-source microbiome study management platform under study 14989 and EBI-ENA accessions PRJEB62460 and ERP147550. Analysis code, intermediate files, and metadata are available here on Github.  Dereplicated MAGs and DRAM output can be found on Zenodo (DOI:10.5281/zenodo.7843104). The mass spectrometry data were deposited on the MassIVE public repository (accession numbers: MSV000084322 for skin samples and MSV000084463 for soil samples). The molecular networking job can be publicly accessed at https://gnps.ucsd.edu/ProteoSAFe/status.jsp?task=1c73926f2eb5409985cc2e136062db2f.
